Journey/Tips from a Junior Software Engineer (#1722)
simplabs/simplabs.github.io: _posts/2022-02-17-journey-of-a-junior-software-engineer.md

---
title: 'Journey of a Junior Software-Engineer'
author: "Inês Silva"
github: inesilva
twitter: inesoaresilva
topic: process
bio: 'Junior Software-Engineer'
description: 'Tips from a Junior Software-Engineer'
og:
---
### A junior software engineer journey

> My journey in _Simplabs_ started in July of 2021, soon it will be 8 months that I’m here. This post has in mind all the future junior software-engineers. I will write how it has been like, how it is now and try to give some tips on the way based on the challenges I faced 💪

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My journey in simplabs started in July of 2021, soon it will be 8 months that I’m here. This post has in mind all the future junior software-engineers. I will write how it has been like, how it is now and try to give some tips on the way based on the challenges I faced 💪
```

always lowercase :)

> 

Reviewer 2: So the deploy preview on Netlify is failing because of an error: 

```
11:44:58 AM: Post "Journey of a Junior Software-Engineer" does not contain break marker! Add "<!--break-->" after the teaser.
```
I guess it makes sense to add it after this line?

```suggestion

<!--break-->

```

Before landing here, I did 4 months internship as a ruby backend engineer 💎 

> I started looking for fullstack job positions - I wanted to get better at both things and discover the frontend world (that I had so little insight before).

Author: you're right. Maybe I would change to - 'I wanted to continue to improve my backend knowledge and discover the frontend world (that I had so little insight into before)

> I started looking for fullstack job positions - I wanted to get better at both things and discover the frontend world (that I had so little insight before).

Reviewer 3: Sounds good :)

> I can stop here for the **#1 tip** - **if you don’t know,** **start as fullstack.** So you can get better on both things and eventually find what fits you better, or just stay in both worlds.

Author: So you can a better picture of the backend and frontend parts of a project, eventually, find what fits you better, or just stay in both worlds.

> I can stop here for the **#1 tip** - **if you don’t know,** **start as fullstack.** So you can get better on both things and eventually find what fits you better, or just stay in both worlds.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I can stop here for the **#1 tip** - **if you don’t know,** **start as full-stack.** This way, you can get a better picture of both frontend and backend parts of a project and then find what fits you better or just stay in both worlds.
```

> After the internship, I landed at _Simplabs_ for my 1st job 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the internship, I landed at simplabs for my 1st job 🙌
```

> Here, I started working in a website for an IT security company. The stack was - Next.js & Typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, I started working in a web app for an IT security company. The stack was - Next.js & Typescript.
```

"website" would typically refer to a static webpage.

As I said before I had very little experience with the frontend world, and apparently with git 😅

My first struggles were git-related problems - I feel this is the thing that developers tend to be overconfident about their expertise on it.

In university, everytime, we started a project using git we would drop it at some point and we would go to the archaic system of copy-pasting code between us 🥲

Time to jump to my **#2 tip - get git rolling**

You will never be alone in a project, so force yourself to learn tools that will make you more efficient to work as a team. Most of my colleagues always use the terminal so I found it easier to get along with it, plus it gives you that hacker look 😎 but there is an interface option [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/). I was documenting all of my git struggles, I will give a glimpse of how my notion notes were looking like in my 2nd week here 😂:

![My note taking with notion](/assets/images/posts/2022-02-17-journey-of-a-junior-software-engineer/my-notion-notes-eg1.png)

> ![](/assets/images/posts/2022-02-17-journey-of-a-junior-software-engineer/my-notion-notes-eg2.png)

Reviewer 4: The picture below features AIS client.
Did we have an NDA with them? @marcoow 

It could be a good idea to obfuscate the picture so we don't show AIS domain at all.
![Image](https://github.com/simplabs/simplabs.github.io/blob/journey-as-junior-dev/public/assets/images/posts/2022-02-17-journey-of-a-junior-software-engineer/my-notion-notes-eg2.png?raw=true)

Reviewer: not sure what the image was but seems this was changed already?

This style of programming is called TDD - test-driven development. In my head, it looked weird - “how can I write a test before having the code?”, but I’m starting to do it now:

```jsx
describe("professional info is", () => {
  describe("INVALID if", () => {
    test("skills has a null value", async () => {
      const [isValid, invalidFields] = await validate(
        {
          currentSalaryRangeId: 2,
          managementExperienceId: 1,
          skills: null,
        },
        schema
      );

      expect(isValid).toBeFalsy();
      expect(invalidFields.length).toBe(1);
      expect(invalidFields[0]).toBe("skills");
    });
	}
}

```

I needed to add a validation for an input, and I started with the code above, after, I would go to my validation function and change it till I make sure I was throwing an invalid response for null values. 
**#4 tip - get your hands-on testing**

> It’s still not my cup of tea, I want to invest more in learning about it and it will probably be more enjoyable once I get better at it, I will try to get my colleagues to pair program with me about this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It’s still not my cup of tea. I want to invest more in learning about it and it will probably be more enjoyable once I get better at it, so I will try to get my colleagues to pair program with me about this.
```

Speaking of mentors, I’m going to my last tip **#5 tip - get a mentor and jump into pair programming sessions**.

> The way this goes depends on the environment of your company, unfortunately, I see a lot of juniors that tell me that they never did pair programming with any colleague or that they get judged by the time they take to accomplish their tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The way this goes depends on the environment within your company. Unfortunately, I see a lot of juniors that tell me that they never did pair programming with a colleague or that they get judged by the amount of time they need to accomplish their tasks.
```

If you land in a new job where nobody is showing availability to help you out - you are in the wrong place. 

> Till my first 3 months, I think I was pairing at least once a week sometimes more. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During my first 3 months at simplabs, I was probably pair programming at least once a week, sometimes more. 
```

> Right now I'm doing it less which is natural - as you progress the more independent you become.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Right now I'm doing it less often, which is natural - the more you progress the more independent you become.
```

> However, I want to go back to more regular pair programming sessions - not only is it a great way of learning, but it also makes you know better your colleagues thinking flow which makes it easier for reviewing each other's code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, I do want to go back to more regular pair programming sessions - not only is it a great way of learning, but it also makes you understand your colleagues' thinking flow better, which makes reviewing each other's code easier.
```

So, how is my week as a junior dev looking now?

> -   I keep doing react, it has some tricky concepts that I’m still trying to fully understand, like dealing with the state of components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   I keep working with React: it has some tricky concepts that I’m still trying to fully understand, like dealing with the state of components.
```

> -   We have 1 day per week to work in open source/learning. I’m using mine to create a personal website in ember which has been a great way of learning while doing a project that I like.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   We have 1 day per week to work on open source/learning. I’m using mine to create a personal website in Ember which has been a great way of learning while doing a project that I like.
```

> -   I’m part of the culture team - we discuss topics that aim for a continuous good team environment. I’m organizing the Lunch & Learn event once a month which was born from these meetings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   I’m part of the culture team - we discuss topics that aim for keeping a nice team environment. I’m organizing the Lunch & Learn event once a month which was born from these meetings.
```

> -   I’m having 🇫🇷 lessons, I’m very happy that Simplabs gives me the opportunity to grow in other fields too.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   I’m having French 🇫🇷 lessons. I’m very happy that Simplabs gives me the opportunity to grow in other fields, too!
```

Author: Maybe I would shorten the other phrase too: 
I'm happy that Simplabs allows me to grow in other fields!

Reviewer 3: Feel free to just write these down as suggestions, see what works best and then commit the suggestion. I'll do a second proof read once you are done if you'd like me to :)

> -   I’m having 🇫🇷 lessons, I’m very happy that Simplabs gives me the opportunity to grow in other fields too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   I’m having 🇫🇷 lessons, I’m very happy that simplabs gives me the opportunity to grow in other fields too.
```

Et voilá! I hope the Inês from the future will look back at this and see how much she progressed! 

> As for my fellow, junior software engineers hope this helps in some way. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As for my fellow, junior software engineers, I hope this helped you in some way. 
```

> Don’t hesitate if you feel like sharing the challenges & your progress with me. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Feel free to share your challenges and progress with me. 
```

> Keep learning & being curious!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Keep learning & stay curious!
```
